---
title:  "Introducing: 52 Papers"
date:   2020-06-15 16:00:31 +0800
permalink: /posts/52papers
category: Teaching
description: "Helping teachers access research in education"
img:
---

Towards the end of my PGCE, I became increasingly interested in the [big issues in education](/posts/whatnext). In particular, the issues that grabbed my attention were teacher recruitment and retention; the research-practice gap; the attainment gap; and the attainment grouping of students.

While there's lots of literature available to _learn_ about these issues, they all seemed too big and unwieldy to actually influence as a (very) early career teacher. However! As our training started wrapping up, I was inspired by a colleague (hi Lucy! &#128075;), who reflected that yes, while it was difficult for us to have an impact at this stage in our careers, the best thing we could do is to do _something_.

This was exactly the shove that I needed to take the first step, and I realised that actually, I might be able to do something useful. A big reason for the research-practice gap existing is that teachers do not have access to academic journals, or the time to search, filter, and digest the recommendations.

Well, I have almost unlimited access to research journals, I read a lot of papers, and I have a year of experience in cutting through the noise to find things that are relevant to the classroom. Why not share what I'm reading?  

And so, [52 Papers](https://52papers.org) was born: My first attempt at contributing to the big issues in education, by making a small bridge across the research-practice gap.

52 Papers aims to cut down the time required for teachers to engage with research. I do the searching and filtering, and then present the key points from research articles in an easily readable five-minute summary.

I share one summary each week, every week of the year.

A paper per week.

[52 Papers](https://52papers.org).
